# Career overview

After my undergraduate studies in fundamental physics, my interest became oriented toward the mesoscopic scale, where the collective dynamics of complex systems leads to fascinating emergent phenomena. I thus graduated in complex systems physics to get a strong training in the techniques capturing such emergent properties: statistical physics, nonlinear dynamics, stochastic processes, etc... Next, because the dynamics of neural networks offered an ideal model system for such an approach, I did my MSc thesis in a computational neuroscience laboratory and I finalised my university training with a MSc in cognitive science (specialised in theoretical neuroscience). I then did the PhD in the group of Alain Destexhe (CNRS, Gif/Yvette) where I developed new analytical tools to capture the dynamics of recurrent networks and to describe single neuron integration. Importantly I was also exposed to experimental neuroscience both through collaborations (teams of F. Chavane at Aix-Marseille Univ., M. V. Sanchez-Vives at IDIBAPS Barcelona) and through the interdisciplinary environment of the UNIC laboratory. This led me to perform the patch-clamp experiments testing the theoretical predictions of our modelling work during the PhD.

 For my postdoctoral training, I wanted to strengthen my analytical skills as well as discover new aspects of neuroscientific research. I therefore joined the Neural Coding laboratory at the *Italian Institute of Technology* (IIT), an interdisciplinary initiative jointly led by Stefano Panzeri, a pioneer in the application of information theory in neural systems, and Tommaso Fellin, a specialist in optical and molecular engineering for interventional experiment in neuroscience. There, I investigated the dynamics characterising the different states of wakefulness in the mouse sensory cortex. I finalised my postdoctoral training with a mixed experimental and theoretical project at the *Institut du Cerveau et de la Moëlle* (ICM) under the joint supervision of Nelson Rebola, a specialist of the cellular mechanisms of neuronal integration, and Alberto Bacci, a specialist of cortical microcircuits. Together, we studied the contribution of inhibitory sub-populations of the cortex in visual processing. In between my two postdocs (IIT and ICM), I helped the CNRS neuroinformatics group in setting up the data management pipeline of the EBrains platform for model sharing (the EU-funded platform for neuroscientific research), which made me familiar with the highest standards of data management in modern research.

In 2025, I started my own research line as a junior professor in computational neuroscience at Sorbonne University. I leverage my joint expertise in theoretical and experimental neuroscience to study both the fundamental principles of information processing in cortical networks as well as their cellular and circuit mechanisms. I perform this research by combining mouse vision neurophysiology with computational and theoretical approaches.

